# Initial Setup

## Prerequisites:

1. Docker desktop (or other option to get docker going)
2. uv for python (actually having python is unecessary-uv will install it.)
3. npm/npx for next app

## Install

1. Clone the repo
2. In the root directory for the project, run:

```bash
make install
```

- This sets up all frontend and backend deps, sets up the backend venv as well

3. Setup automatic venv activation for backend (optional)

- Makefile has support to build an .envrc that activates the venv upon entering the dir if you have direnv installed.

```bash
make .envrc
```

4. Setup the env file.
   1. At root:

   ```bash
   cp .env.example .env
   ```

   2. For now, that's it. As integrations are added, Ryan will provide the missing secrets.

# Standing up the app:

Run:

```bash
make clean
```

- This runs any migrations, starts the db container, seeds the database, and starts the front and backend servers.
- `make` will do all of the above, but without trying to seed.

connect to the dev database in a shell if necessary:

```bash
make db-sh
```

# Migrations:

Migrations are autogenerated by Alembic, provided that the SqlAlchemy ORM schemas for each data type are used as the source of truth. Make all your schema changes in the models.py for the given data type, and then run:

```bash
make db-start
cd backend
uv run alembic revision --autogenerate -m "message"
```

# Code Patterns:

## Route return types:

- Take the fullest advantage of params in FastApi route decorators, such as `response_model`. FastApi will automaticlaly serialize and validate to that model.
- Use Python return type hints everywhere, and here is no exception. This stacks Python type safety on FastApi benefits. Cleanest code, type safety, and full use of tooling.

## Git practices:

A template is already programmed for PRs. use it.

When doing a project:

- use stacked PRs.
  1.  checkout a branch from main
  2.  do minimal changes. This branch should be one small step in the project.
  3.  push the commits
  4.  branch off of the feature branch
  5.  repeat 1-3
- For reviews:
  1.  rebase onto main.
  2.  review the diff on the PR
  3.  squash-merge back to main
  4.  next branch: rebase onto main. Repeat 2-3 until done.
